# February 15, 2024

## Attendees
- Philip Chimento (PFC)
- Richard Gibson (RGN)
- Chris de Almeida (CDA)

## Agenda

### Status ([#2628](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/2628))
- Reviews would be helpful on:
    - [#2766](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/pull/2766)
    - [#2767](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/pull/2767)
    - [test262#4007](https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/4007)

### Binary size concerns
- Recap of hallway conversations at TC39 plenary. We will need numbers from SpiderMonkey and V8 on the current size increase and how much of a size increase would be acceptable.

### Implementation questions
- None today.
