# August 31, 2023

## Attendees
- Chris de Almeida (CDA)
- Richard Gibson (RGN)
- Philip Chimento (PFC)
- Philipp Dunkel (PDL)

## Agenda

### Status report
- IETF
    - Still waiting for area director action.
- Pending PRs - status [#2628](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/2628)
    - Main thing is review on user code calls pt 2.

### Make a decision on fixup of #2500 ([#2664](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/2664))
- RGN: The reason I put [#2664](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/2664) out there was to sync the tests and polyfill with the current state of the spec. I'm surprised to see pushback on that.
- PFC: I can see why someone else might not want that.
- PFC to ping SFC and JGT to plan a discussion with RGN before the next Temporal meeting.
